How Jarvis Cocker made an isolation anthem by accident
By Paul Glynn
Entertainment & arts reporter
4 July 2020
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightDANIEL COHEN/LUMEN
Image caption
Jarvis Cocker has also read out bedtime stories for listeners online during lockdown
In recent months, songwriters have been sitting with their guitars and pianos, attempting to articulate the fears, frustrations and, at times, freedoms brought on by confinement.

None of them, as-yet, have succeeded as emphatically as Jarvis Cocker - with his March release, House Music All Night Long.

"Saturday night cabin fever, in house nation / This is one nation under a roof" declares the former Pulp frontman, on the acid house-style banger about a rave enthusiast trapped at home while longing to be out chasing kicks with the object of his heart's desire.

The track, however, was in fact created when Corona was, for most of us, still just the name of a brand of Mexican beer.

Speaking from his own lockdown bunker in the Peak District last month, the singer reluctantly agrees it's turned out to be a rather apposite tune for the times.

"It's been really weird that, you know," says Cocker.

"Emma, who plays the violin in the band, a friend of hers caught the virus quite early on and had to self-isolate, and she said, 'the lyrics seemed really pertinent to what I was going through'.

"But the song was written two years ago, so it's just one of those spooky coincidences. I'm not a clairvoyant, and I'm not going to go into business giving readings or trying to see into the future."

Image Copyright Jarvis CockerJARVIS COCKER
Report
He adds: "When you're a songwriter, you're always kind of hoping that you're going to catch the zeitgeist or whatever, write something that kind of chimes with people's actual real experience.

"But in this case, it's not really something to be that happy about, is it?"

While the Britpop icon was far from thrilled to have helped herald in the era of literal house music, one line in the song did give him cause for celebration.

"God damn this claustrophobia / 'Cause I should be disrobing ya" he offers, with the kind of seductively half-sung/half-whispered wordplay that saw him become an intellectual pop pin-up of the '90s.

"I was proud of that," he admits.

"I'm not a self-congratulatory person, but sometimes when you get a rhyme like that - I might even have slightly punched the air."
